# March-Madness-2020
Logistic regression model I put together to predict NCAA 2020 March Madness results 

In March of 2019, before I started learning about data science, I wanted to compete in a bracket challenge at work and like most people, I hoped to win. I have always enjoyed the excitement around March Madness even though I normally do not watch basketball and have not played since I was a kid. I love thinking about what it would take to select the winner of all 63 games and having perfect bracket (odds are 1 in 9.2 quintillion). So as an uninformed, non-basketball watcher, with a lot of Excel knowledge, I started looking for ways to help me better predict the NCAA 2019 March Madness results. After some google searched and not understanding much of what I was reading about, I decided to create a simple formula using 3 features I could easily find online for each team based on the 2019 season: Average Points For, Average Points Against, and Strength of Schedule. I weighted these three features evenly and used these scores I had generated to pick the team with the higher score for each matchup. In the end, as I had hoped I won the bracket challenge I had participated in at work without watching a single basketball game that season. My coworkers were extremely disappointed to have been beat by someone who hardly knows anything about basketball.

After the success in 2019, and after completing the Microsoft's Professional Program for Data Science on EdX in November of 2019, I set out to use my newly learned skills to see if I could do better in 2020 by developing a logistic regression model. 

Here is the logistic regression model I came up with based on tournament results from 2015 - 2019 to hopefully predict NCAA 2020 March Madness results. I used an 80% train, 20% test split and I was able to achieve a classification rate accuracy of 75.5%. This seemed rather good, but the ultimate test was going to be the always unpredictable NCAA 2020 March Madness Tournament. Unfortunately, as we all know today that the 2020 tournament ultimately got cancelled due to COVID-19. I hope to be able to use this again for the upcoming NCAA 2021 March Madness Tournament to see how it performs and so I can continuously make improvements for future tournaments.  
